### A Collection of Tributes or Memory Pieces for Professor An Yin by IPACES Members

#### [Click here to view the full PDF](an-yin-memorial.pdf)

- [UCLA memorial site for An Yin](https://anyinmemorial.com/)
- ["In Memoriam: Distinguished Professor An Yin"](https://epss.ucla.edu/news/in-memoriam-professor-an-yin/)
    - Dr. Mark Harrison, Univ. California, Los Angeles
- [《深切缅怀杰出华裔教授尹安 -凤凰卫视美洲新闻》](http://www.chinesetimes.info/static/content/SP/FHSP/2023-08-15/1142069610942967808.html)
    - 《华夏时报》 Chinese Times USA

Dear all:

We are saddened at the loss of Prof. An Yin, founding member and former IPACES
chair, who passed away unexpectedly on the afternoon of July 12, 2023 PDT.

Dr. Yin was born in 1959 in Harbin, China. He obtained his B.S. from Peking
University in 1982 and Ph.D. at the University of Southern California in 1988
with Dr. Gregory Davis. He had been working at the University of California, Los
Angeles (UCLA) as a Professor in Geology since then. Dr. Yin was an
internationally renowned expert in Tectonics and Geology. His seminal work
includes the tectonic evolution of the Himalayas and Tibetan plateau and
mechanics of low-angle normal and thrust faults in the North American
Cordillera. He is also interested in planetary tectonics, slow earthquakes, and
tectonic geomorphology. He published more than 200 peer-reviewed papers with an
H-index of 86.

Dr. Yin had received many awards, including the Donath Medal from the Geological
Society of America (GSA) in 1994, fellow of the American Geophysical Union in
2013, and the Penrose Medal from the GSA in 2022. Yin was the Editor-in-Chief
for Tectonophysics and Earth and Planetary Science Letters. He had mentored
numerous outstanding students that were successful in academia, government
agencies, and private industries. Additional information about his achievement
can be found on [Wikipedia: An Yin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Yin) and
his [Research Website](https://faculty.epss.ucla.edu/~yin/).

Dr. Yin served as the Vice Chair of IPACES in 1999 and was the chair of IPACES
in 2000. He attended the IPACES annual meetings many times, from the earlier
in-person meetings to the virtual meetings in 2021-2022 during the COVID-19
pandemic. At UCLA, He hosted many visiting scientists from China. He also
contributed significantly to IPACES mission by promoting Earth Sciences research
and education in China, and cooperation between earth scientists in China and
elsewhere around the world. He will be deeply missed by the IPACES community!

IPACES Council members: Zhigang Peng, Lijun Liu, and Benzhan Yan

