<style>
.markdown p { text-indent: 4em; }
</style>

# Bylaws

## ARTICLE I. MISSION

The mission of the IPACES group is to advance research and education of Chinese
Earth Sciences and to promote scientific collaboration between China and other
countries.

## ARTICLE II. MEMBERSHIP

The membership of this Association shall be by invitation only.  Nomination of
a new member requires two sponsors from the current members. The sponsors shall
provide the basic information regarding the qualification of the candidate for
group discussion. The nomination shall be discussed by the group and voted by
the Council.  A simple majority of the Council is required for the candidate to
be elected. The number of new members accepted by the group each year shall not
exceed 20% of its membership.

## ARTICLE III. OFFICERS AND AUTHORITIES

The Association is governed by a Council, which consists of a Chair, an
Associate Chair, a Treasurer, and other Council members.  The Council shall
consist of an odd number of members, no more than 7 and no more than 15% of the
whole membership, whichever is smaller.  The Chair, in consultation with the
Council and the group, shall have the authority to set up committees, appoint
committee chairs and members, and assign tasks to members.  The Treasurer will
maintain the group account according to rules set up by the Council and the
group, and will report the financial aspects to the group every year. The
Council, in consultation with the group, shall have the authority to elect new
members, to initiate agenda, and to set dues. The Council can overrule the
Chair by a simple majority, and the group can overrule the Chair or the Council
by a simple majority.

## ARTICLE IV. ELECTION

The term of the Chair, Associate Chair, Treasurer and other Council members
shall be one year. The Treasurer and other Council members can be re-elected.
The Chair cannot be re-elected immediately after his/her tenure. When the
Chair's term expires, the Associate Chair automatically becomes the Chair.
Nominations of the new Associate Chair and Council members shall be made to the
current Chair. The Chair will distribute the names among the group members and
ask for vote.  The new Associate Chair and Council members shall be elected
with a simple majority of all votes. The current Chair and the Associate Chair
of the group are the vote counters. When there is a conflict of interests, the
Council shall assign other member as the vote counters. If there is more than
one candidate for a position and no one receives the majority vote, then a
second round of vote between the two front runners will be held. In case of a
tie between two candidates, the person who gets the Associate Chair's vote is
elected.

## ARTICLE V. DUES

The membership dues shall be established by the Council every year.

## ARTICLE VI. MEETINGS

The group shall hold at least one meeting of its members each year, at a time
and place designated by the Council.

## ARTICLE VII. AMENDMENTS

Amendments to the Bylaws can be proposed jointly by at least two members in
writing submitted to the Council. The proposed amendments shall be decided by a
simple majority vote of the group.

### *Revisions*

1. *May 30, 2002*
2. *September 30, 2003*

